.TH NOTEIT 1 "2026-07-18" "noteit 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
noteit \- capture notes bound to the git repository you're in
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B noteit
.RI [ text ]
.br
.B noteit
.I verb
.RI [ args ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B noteit
captures small notes that bind to the identity of the git repository you run it
in. Notes follow a repo across clones and renames because they key off the
repository's first commit, not its path. Outside a repo, notes bind to the
directory path and are adopted into a repo if one appears later.
.PP
The first argument decides the action: an argument matching a known verb runs
that verb; anything else is captured as note text. Use
.B add
to capture text that collides with a verb.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BI "noteit " text
Capture a note in the current context.
.TP
.B noteit
List notes for the current context.
.TP
.BI "add " text
Capture text that collides with a verb.
.TP
.B new
Capture a longer note in $EDITOR (or $VISUAL).
.TP
.BI "search " query
Full-text search. With
.B \-\-global
searches every repository.
.TP
.B list
List notes. Flags:
.BR \-\-global ", " \-\-flat ", " "\-\-tag " \fIt\fR ", " \-\-all ", " "\-\-limit " \fIn\fR.
.TP
.BI "done " id
Mark a note done.
.TP
.BI "open " id
Reopen a note.
.TP
.BI "delete " id
Permanently delete a note (context-scoped).
.TP
.BI "project rename " name
Rename the current project.
.TP
.B adopt \-\-undo
Reverse the most recent automatic adoption and keep it reversed.
.TP
.BI "plugin install \-\-host " host
Install noteit's plugin assets into an AI host
.RB ( claude ", " codex ", " gemini ", or " all ).
.TP
.B "plugin list | status | doctor | uninstall \-\-host \fIhost\fR"
Manage plugin installs.
.B doctor
runs host-side health checks.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/noteit.db
The SQLite database holding all notes (\fI%USERPROFILE%\\noteit.db\fR on Windows).
.TP
.I $HOME/.<host>/plugins/noteit/
Installed plugin trees. Override the home dir with
.BR NOTEIT_PLUGIN_ROOT .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Not found (e.g.
.B done
/\c
.B open
/\c
.B delete
on an id with no matching note), or a corrupt plugin install reported by
.BR doctor .
.TP
.B 2
Usage error, or an empty/whitespace capture.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B EDITOR ", " VISUAL
Editor used by
.BR "noteit new" .
.TP
.B NOTEIT_PLUGIN_ROOT
Overrides the home directory used for plugin install targets.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project documentation and source: https://github.com/dyammarcano/noteit
